# Community-Engagement-Project
A website aimed at educating kids that have recently been diagnosed with CLOCC (cytotoxic lesion of the corpus callosum) about their disorder and what's happening in their body

Target audience: Child patients (age 9-17) with covid-induced CLOCC

Purpose: To reduce patient anxiety by providing them an avenue to learn about their condition and how it could have arose

It is a healthcare worker's job to be able to effectively communicate to children/adolescents about their condition. This is important because children and adolescents should be involved in their own healthcare and provide self-management skills (Bell 2016). Pre-operative information is necessary to reduce anxiety in the patient, and it is hypothesized that if a patient were to read about their illness and understand it, it would greatly decrease anxiety as well (Bolton 1994). It is common for doctors to miscommunicate a patient's diagnosis and prognosis, simply because it is not explained in a way the patient can understand. Allowing a child or adolescent to play a game that is able to further explain their illness and prognosis, the prognosis being that the immune cells win and the illness will clear. This may help them better  grasp their illness and allow them to be more involved in their own healthcare. Our video game will be a low-cost and easy pass-time that further educates patients on their condition. Furthermore, video games are a useful strategy to decrease pediatric patient anxiety in a hospital setting. This form of distraction is a familiar and pleasurable activity that will relieve some anxiety in the patient (Patel 2006).

How the game provides knowledge: As shown in the instructions page, each stage represents a method of covid-19 infection which can lead to CLOCC. Two of them, olfactory and circulatory, are examples of direct infection, where the covid-19 virus directly goes to and infects the brain. The bonus stage is an indirect method, where cytokine release in other infected areas can enter the brain and cause 
inflammation in the brain, leading to CLOCC.

In the olfactory method, the covid-19 virus enters through the nose and infects olfactory epithelial cells, then the olfactory bulb, where they would then spread trans-neuronally to the brain (see our literature review for more information). The stage simulates this as there are neurons in the middle of the stage, which you can move up or down through them, which shows trans-neuronal spread. The epithelial cells on either side represent the olfactory epithelial cells that are also infected through this method.

In the circulatory method, the covid-19 virus infect either the epithelial cells of the blood-brain barrier or the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier and pass through to reach the brain (see our literature review for more information). This stage simulates this by showing these viruses trying 
to pass through this blood-brain barrier, in which you as an immune cell are trying to block them from passing by you.

In the bonus stage (indirect cytokine method), the covid-19 virus infects cells in other regions of the body. The cells will release cytokines. However, the covid-19 virus can activate both the NFkB and STAT3 pathway, which through positive feedback, will produce an abnormally high level of cytokines (cytokine storm). These can pass through the blood-brain barrier and can also increase the permeability of the blood-brain barrier, which can lead to CLOCC (see our literature review for more information). The stage simulates this as the instructions let them know of what cytokines are and how a high level of cytokines can cause CLOCC, which is why in this game, the goal is for the user to get rid of as many cytokines as possible so that it does not become a cytokine storm
